Name: C.H.E.F - Cooking Helper for Everyone's Fridge
A web app to lessen food waste and save money in the current cost of living crisis.
Tracks what ingredients the user has in their fridge and suggests recipes based on those ingredients.
ingredients can be scanned as they are being put away to track their amounts in the fridge and making
a recipe deducts the ingredients from the tracked items.

support local businesses
Could include a feature to show ingredients available in nearby stores (within walking distance)
and also show recipes that can be made with a trip to the store.

Could allow the user to input ingredients they don't like or are allergic to and filter out recipes including them.
If a user doesn't like mushrooms they won't like anything made with them
For a household with multiple people, track each user's preferences individually. Allow filtering recipes that multiple or all users like.
Have an option to increase the amount of an ingredient in a recipe if the user likes it (e.g., an excessive amount of garlic)

Filter by prep time

Show the cost of each recipe for users on a budget
Need to find an API that provides recipe and cost data

May want to scan the barcodes of products to ease data entry
Find a library to scan the barcode then look it up in a database. Need to find an API for lookups.
If scanning a product that has already been partially used, allow the user to enter how much is left.
Need some way to determine what a product is from the returned data.
Still need a manual entry option
If data can't be found, allow the user to enter it manually and submit it to the database

Consider ingredients that can be substituted for each other. Different coloured peppers can be used interchangeably, for example.

Track what has been made recently to avoid repeating recipes too often.
Different categories of recipes (e.g. breakfast, lunch, dinner, dessert, snack, etc.)
Allow the user to add their recipes
Allow selecting a random recipe
If the user doesn't like a recipe, allow them to remove it from the list of suggestions

Allow inputting regular deliveries that will automatically be added to their database

Won't have: Track nutrition for healthy eating

Project Supervisors:
Nick Dalton
Andy Dow
John Rooksby
